# March 18, 2020

I have an allele-specific model of evolutionary rescue. The advantages of this model over a model which treats breeding values as normally distributed random variables is that it mechanistically models changes in the variance in breeding values (or something simlar).

Note that I defined "genetic value" as something akin to breeding values. I am uncomfortable using the term breeding value because breeding values are defined by additive effects, which are relaint on the mean allele freqency of each allele. This involves some centering around means. I am sure this doesn't influence the variance, but this isn't an assumption I want to base analysis on. Instead I've defined "genetic value" as the sum of effects of each allele. This is not necessarily centered around zero.

Some realizations from this model:

##### Potential confounding between initial population size and genetic variance.

Genetic variance *per se* isn't affected by population size. But, when initializing a simulation, the mean genetic value is sampled from a distribution. The larger the sample is, by the central limit theorem, the less variance in that sample there will be. Thus, there's going to be a small spread of initial mean genetic values for large populations, but potentially more spread in the smaller values. Any analysis of extinction should control for the initial mean genetic value.

##### One way of viewing demographic stochasticity

Sampling variation could also be a good way of defining demographic stochasticity. The realized population growth rate is a mean of draws from a Poisson distribution. The larger the sample is, the less variation around the mean there will be.

If the rate of the Poisson (i.e., the mean fitness) is $\bar{R}$, and there are $n$ individuals in the population, then the expectation of the replacement rate will be

$$\frac{1}{n} \displaystyle\sum_{i=1}^n \bar{R}_i$$

where $R_i \sim \text{Pois}(\bar{R}).$ In approx. 95% of samples of size $n$, the number of offspring will fall in the range $(\bar{R} - 2 * \sqrt{\frac{\bar{R}{n}}}, \bar{R} + 2 * \sqrt{\frac{\bar{R}{n}}}).$ If $\bar{R} > 1$, smaller $n$ increases the probability of obtaining a replacement rate that is less than 1.

##### Loss of genetic variation: two (?) mechanisms

Genetic variation is eroded by changing allele frequencies. Variation will be maximized when all loci have a 50-50 allele frequency. 